Symfony guide (#2930)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: docs/src/guides/symfony/get-started.md

---
title: Get Started
sidebarTitle: "Get started"
weight: -255
layout: single
description: |
    See how to get started deploying Symfony on Platform.sh.
---

Symfony is a PHP framework that you can use to create web applications. Platform.sh is the official Symfony PaaS.

This guide provides instructions for deploying, and working with, Symfony on Platform.sh.

{{% guides/requirements name="Symfony" %}}

{{< note >}}
When using Symfony, all commands using Platform CLI `platform <command>` can be replaced by `symfony cloud:<command>` as Symfony CLI wraps the [Platform.sh CLI](/administration/cli/_index.md) with added features related to Symfony.
{{< /note >}}

## Creating your Symfony Application

To get familiar with Platform.sh, create a new Symfony project from scratch (we will use the [Symfony Demo](https://symfony.com/doc/current/setup.html#the-symfony-demo-application)):

```bash
symfony new {{< variable "PROJECT_NAME" >}} --demo --cloud
cd {{< variable "PROJECT_NAME" >}}
```

The `--demo` flag pulls the [Symfony demo skeleton](https://github.com/symfony/demo).</br>
The `--cloud` flag automatically generates the Platform.sh configuration files.

{{< note >}}

> If you want to deploy an **existing project**, generate a sensible default Platform.sh configuration from within the project's directory:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can deploy an **existing project**. To do so, follow these steps:

1. To generate a default Platform.sh configuration, run the following command from within the project's directory:
```

```bash
symfony project:init
```

The command generates a default set of configuration files: `.platform.app.yaml`, `.platform/services.yaml`, `.platform/routes.yaml`, and `php.ini`.

> Commit the new files in your repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. To commit the new files in your repository, run the following commands:
```

```bash
git add .platform.app.yaml .platform/services.yaml .platform/routes.yaml php.ini
git commit -m "Add Platform.sh configuration"
```
{{< /note >}}

> Platform.sh manages the entire infrastructure of your project, from code to
> services (databases, queues, search, ...), from email sending to
> [cron-jobs](./crons) and [workers](./workers). This infrastructure is
> described through configuration files, stored along side your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Platform.sh manages the entire infrastructure of your project, from code to
services (such as databases, queues, or search engines),
all the way to email sending to [cron-jobs](./crons) and [workers](./workers).
This infrastructure is described through configuration files, stored alongside your code.
```

> ## Creating the Project on Platform.sh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create the Project on Platform.sh
```

Create the project on Platform.sh by running the following command from within the project's directory:
```bash
symfony cloud:create --title PROJECT_TITLE --set-remote
```

> The `--set-remote` flag will set this new project as the remote for this repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--set-remote` flag sets the new project as the remote for this repository.
```

{{< note title="Tip" >}}

> You can link any repository to an existing Platform.sh project using following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can link any repository to an existing Platform.sh project using the following command:
```

```bash
symfony project:set-remote {{< variable "PROJECT_ID" >}}
```
{{< /note >}}

> ## Deploying your Project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy your project
```

Use the following command to deploy the project:

```bash
symfony cloud:deploy
```

{{< note title="Tip" >}}
During deploy, within your terminal, it displays logs of the deployment process from the Platform.sh API.
You can kill the process using `CTRL+C` command line without interrupting the deployment process.</BR>
If you want to get your eyes back on the logs, use `symfony activity:log`.
{{< /note >}}

**Congrats!**</BR>
**Your first Symfony application has been deployed on Platform.sh.**

Now that your application is deployed in a production mode, you can define a custom domain for your live website by following this [link](/administration/web/configure-project.html#domains) or use the following command:

```bash
symfony cloud:domain:add {{< variable "YOUR_DOMAIN" >}}
```

Go forth and Deploy (even on Friday)!

> ## Working on a Project

Reviewer 2: Should be "Making changes..." then, right? (to be consistent with the other titles)

symfony environment:delete feat-a
git branch -d feat-a
symfony cloud:deploy
```

{{< note >}}
Note that deploying production was fast as it reused the image built for the `feat-a` environment.
{{< /note >}}

For a long running branch, you can keep the code up-to-date with main via `git merge main` or `git rebase main`. And you can also keep the data in sync with the production environment via `symfony env:sync`.

## Next Steps

### Symfony Integration

Learn more about the [Symfony integration](./integration), a set of tools and
auto-configurations that makes it easier to use Platform.sh for Symfony
projects.

### Environment Variables

When using the Symfony integration, more [environment
variables](./environment-variables) related to Symfony are defined.

### Use more Services

Platform.sh supports a wide range of services. For more information about how to use them with a Symfony project, consult the [Services for Symfony projects](./services).

### Local development

Once Symfony has been deployed on Platform.sh, you might want to set up a local development environment.
For more information, consult the [Symfony local development guides](./local).

### External resources

> The community also provides a number of Open-Source starting points you can consult:

Reviewer 2: Removed
